Add addons blog post (#7445)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/addon-rework/index.md

---
title: Reworking our Addon Integrations
description: A new way to manage installation of telemetry addons.
publishdate: 2020-06-10
attribution: John Howard (Google)
keywords: [telemetry,addons,integrations,grafana,prometheus]
target_release: 1.6
test: n/a
---

> In Istio 1.6, we are introducing a new method for integration with telemetry addons (Grafana, Prometheus, Zipkin, Jaeger, Kiali, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Istio 1.6, we are introducing a new method for integration with telemetry addons (Grafana, Prometheus, Zipkin, Jaeger, Kiali, etc).
```

> In previous releases, these addons were bundled as part of the Istio installation. At the time, this was incredibly useful as it allowed users to quickly get started without dealing with complicated configurations to install and integrate with these applications. However, it came with a number of issues. Our installations were not as up to date or feature rich as upstream installation methods, meaning users were left missing out on some of the great features provided by these applications such as persistent storage, features like `Alertmanager` for Prometheus, and advanced security settings. Additionally, integration with existing deployments that were using these features was more challenging than it should be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous releases, these addons were bundled as part of the Istio installation. At the time, this was helpful as it allowed users to quickly get started without needing any complicated configurations to install and integrate with these applications. However, it came with some issues:

* Our installations were not as up to date or feature rich as upstream installation methods, meaning users were left missing out on some of the great features provided by these applications, for example:
    1. persistent storage
    1. featyres like `Alertmanager` for Prometheus
    1. advanced security settings
 *  Integration with existing deployments that were using these features was more challenging than it should be.
```

## Changes

In order to address these gaps, we have made a number of changes:

> * Added a new [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation section to explain what applications Istio can integrate with, how to use them, and best practices.

Reviewer: All of these bullets are not displaying correctly (check the preview). Need blank lines before and proper 4 space indent of second level items.

Author: thanks. fixed

* Reduced the amount of configuration required to set up telemetry Addons
  * Grafana dashboards are now [published to `grafana.com`](/docs/ops/integrations/grafana/#import-from-grafana-com).
  * Prometheus can now scrape all Istio pods [using standard `prometheus.io` annotations](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-2-metrics-merging). This allows most Prometheus deployments to work with Istio without any special configuration.

> * We are removing the bundled addon installations as part of istioctl and the operator. Istio will not concern itself with installing components that are not delivered by the Istio project. As a result, Istio will stop shipping installation artifacts related to addons. Istio will guarantee version compatibility where necessary. It is the user's responsibility to install these components using official documentation and artifacts provided by the respective projects, following the [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation. For demos, users can deploy simple yaml files from the `samples/addons/` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We are removing the bundled addon installations from `istioctl` and the operator. Istio will not concern itself with installing components that are not delivered by the Istio project. As a result, Istio will stop shipping installation artifacts related to addons. Istio will guarantee version compatibility where necessary. It is the user's responsibility to install these components using official documentation and artifacts provided by the respective projects, following the [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation. For demos, users can deploy simple yaml files from the [`samples/addons/` directory]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/addons).
```

> We hope these changes allow users to make the most of these addons to fully experience what Istio can offer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope these changes allow users to make the most of these addons so as to fully experience what Istio can offer.
```

---
title: Reworking our Addon Integrations
description: A new way to manage installation of telemetry addons.

> publishdate: 2020-06-10

Reviewer: @howardjohn Do you want to hold off on posting this until June 10? If not, change this date, and we can merge it as soon as you're ready.

Author: No, I just picked an arbitrary date in the future. I'll switch it to today

attribution: John Howard (Google)
keywords: [telemetry,addons,integrations,grafana,prometheus]
test: n/a
---

> Starting with Istio 1.6, we are introducing a new method for integration with telemetry addons (Grafana, Prometheus, Zipkin, Jaeger, Kiali, etc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with Istio 1.6, we are introducing a new method for integration with telemetry addons, such as Grafana, Prometheus, Zipkin, Jaeger, and Kiali.
```

> In previous releases, these addons were bundled as part of the Istio installation. At the time, this was helpful as it allowed users to quickly get started without needing any complicated configurations to install and integrate with these applications. However, it came with some issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In previous releases, these addons were bundled as part of the Istio installation. This allowed users to quickly get started with Istio without any complicated configurations to install and integrate these addons. However, it came with some issues:
```

> * Our installations were not as up to date or feature rich as upstream installation methods, meaning users were left missing out on some of the great features provided by these applications, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Istio addon installations were not as up to date or feature rich as upstream installation methods. Users were left missing out on some of the great features provided by these applications, such as:
```

>     1. persistent storage
>     1. features like `Alertmanager` for Prometheus
>     1. advanced security settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Persistent storage
    * Features like `Alertmanager` for Prometheus
    * Advanced security settings
```

> *  Integration with existing deployments that were using these features was more challenging than it should be.

Reviewer 2: what does "features" refer to here?

Author: Refers to the previous bullet point. Basically what I mean to say here is that users were using their own deployments already, because they needed advanced customization/organization guidelines/existing integrations. When they were doing that, it was more challenging that it should be. so I guess we can probably just make this something like " Integration with existing deployments was more challenging than it should be."

Reviewer: `... more challenging than it should have been.`

## Changes

In order to address these gaps, we have made a number of changes:

> * Added a new [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation section to explain what applications Istio can integrate with, how to use them, and best practices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Added a new [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation section to explain which applications Istio can integrate with, how to use them, and best practices.
```

> * Reduced the amount of configuration required to set up telemetry Addons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Reduced the amount of configuration required to set up telemetry addons
```

    * Grafana dashboards are now [published to `grafana.com`](/docs/ops/integrations/grafana/#import-from-grafana-com).

    * Prometheus can now scrape all Istio pods [using standard `prometheus.io` annotations](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-2-metrics-merging). This allows most Prometheus deployments to work with Istio without any special configuration.

> * We are removing the bundled addon installations from `istioctl` and the operator. Istio will not concern itself with installing components that are not delivered by the Istio project. As a result, Istio will stop shipping installation artifacts related to addons. Istio will guarantee version compatibility where necessary. It is the user's responsibility to install these components using official documentation and artifacts provided by the respective projects, following the [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation. For demos, users can deploy simple yaml files from the [`samples/addons/` directory]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/addons).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Removed the bundled addon installations from `istioctl` and the operator. Istio does not install components that are not delivered by the Istio project. As a result, Istio will stop shipping installation artifacts related to addons. However, Istio will guarantee version compatibility where necessary. It is the user's responsibility to install these components by using the official [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) documentation and artifacts provided by the respective projects. For demos, users can deploy simple YAML files from the [`samples/addons/` directory]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/addons).
```

We hope these changes allow users to make the most of these addons so as to fully experience what Istio can offer.

## Timeline

> * Istio 1.6: the new demo deployments are available under `samples/addons/` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Istio 1.6: The new demo deployments for telemetry addons are available under `samples/addons/` directory.
```

> * Istio 1.7: Upstream installation methods or the new samples deployment are the recommended installation methods. Installation by istioctl is deprecated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Istio 1.7: Upstream installation methods or the new samples deployment are the recommended installation methods. Installation by `istioctl` is deprecated.
```

> * Istio 1.8: Installation of addons by istioctl is removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Istio 1.8: Installation of addons by `istioctl` is removed.
```
